>> Jafar Husain: So
did everybody get what we've done so far?
We create an observable for each one of
those dom, all the interesting dom events
and we just merge them together and
that's any action they can be performed
on the UI and then we just subscribe
to that an we display the learning bar.
So okay, easy stuff over.
Let's start building images.
>> Jafar Husain: Help me out,
folks at home I'll also take
ideas from you as well.
How should I start here?
It's kinda of hard,
right, because we could get images
from loading a new sub in theory.
But you get images from pressing Next and
Back.
How do we even know where to start?
>> Speaker 2: Could start by
getting the value of subSelect.
>> Jafar Husain: We could get
the value of subSelect, okay.
So I could go,
>> Jafar Husain: Like so.
>> Speaker 2: And then you could
set images to get subimages,
passing in that value.
>> Jafar Husain: Set images to-
>> Jafar Husain: Get subimages,
and then I would pass in the value.
That seems pretty reasonable to me.
>> Speaker 2: It'll give you a stream.
>> Jafar Husain: It'll give me a stream,
absolutely.
>> Speaker 2: So you'll get a bunch.
>> Jafar Husain: It's technically
going to be an observable of an array
of all the image URLS, that's
technically what I'm gonna get here.
Do we wanna take?
Let's kick the tires,
let's take a look at it in the console.
How does that sound?
>> Jafar Husain: So
what happens if we do that?
I'm just gonna
subscribe.
>> Jafar Husain: I'll comment this out for
now.
>> Jafar Husain: Think I got an error,
cuz I'm not seeing anything.
We got an array of 101.
And look, we got a whole
bunch of image URLs in there.
All right, that's a pretty good start.
>> Jafar Husain: Do we feel closer?
I feel a little bit closer.
So, here's an interesting thing though.
You notice the logic that we're doing
of plucking this value out of the drop
down list.
It's kinda already what
we're doing in map, right?
Like does anybody feel that way?
We're kind of doing this logic right here.
Isn't that very similar to what
we're doing in the map function?
I mean, it's weird.
We've got a stream that'll give us
the value whenever it changes, but
we also want to get the value
of what it is right now, right?
So this kind of repeats that
code just a little bit.
Kind of repeats that code.
At least this piece.
What if instead of a stream of changes,
we had a stream of all the changes but
it also started with the value
of whatever it was right now.
Does that make sense?
Often, that's a nice, that's a better
way of thinking about the problem,
because instead of thinking about it as,
well, I'm just gonna do this thing,
this one thing right now, and
then I'm gonna worry about streams.
Instead you can just take this one thing,
stick it on the front of the stream,
and then you can think
exclusively about streams,
thinking exclusively in terms of streams.
So if I wanted to just take the value
of whatever was in sub-select and
then just stick it on
the front of the stream.
How would I do that?
Knowing how I solved the problem
of animations allowed last time.
In which we stuck a value at
the front of the observable.
And a value at the back of the observable.
>> Speaker 2: KinCat?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, KinCat.
So subs doesn't just mean,
I don't really want subs to mean
all the future changes of the subs.
I want subs to include,
the value of what subs is right now.
And then it's just all the streams of
all the subs I need to care about, so
we're subtly shifting
the definition of what subs is.
>> Jafar Husain: I'm gonna use KinCat.
>> Jafar Husain: Cool.
So now, instead of this.
Instead of just operating on
whatever it is right now,
let's do the equivalent of what this would
be over every item in the substream.
Which now includes not just
future changes of the sub, but
it'll immediately start with
whatever the sub is right now.
So this is how you would do
something to a scalar value.
How do we do the equivalent
of this on a scalar value
to every value in the substream?
That's the leap we need to make when we
think about single value programming and
stream programming.
What do we do?
Well, we took a value and
sub and then we got the sub images for it.
How would I get the sub images for
all of the values?
>> Speaker 2: Map it.
>> Jafar Husain: All the future
values of subs.
Yes, I would map it.
Absolutely.
So I'm gonna go images = subs.map.
And then I'm going to get a sub,
and then I'm going to call,
getSubImages.
Now, how many dimensions
is this collection?
>> Speaker 2: Don't you need
a pass sub to getSubImages?
>> Jafar Husain: My bad, thank you.
>> Jafar Husain: Same question.
>> Speaker 2: Two dimensions.
>> Jafar Husain: Two dimensions.
Why is it two dimensions?
>> Jafar Husain: What
does getSubImages return?
>> Speaker 2: It's a string
of image locations.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, well, it's
technically an observable that gives you
one array, but
that's still a flat observable.
It could be an array.
It could be a number.
It doesn't matter.
Just because the observable
only fires once,
two doesn't mean it's not an observable.
So this is technically
an observable of observables for
the same reason as this is
a two-dimensional collection.
Remember this example that we did, guys?
>> Jafar Husain: So
because we've called the function,
which takes a simple value, i.e.
the sub we're in and
creates an observable of an array
of all the images for that, right?
And we've executed it for
every item in another observable,
we're going to end up with
a two dimensional observable.
Make sense?
So, all right.
Well I can't subscribe to this as it is,
it's a two dimensional observable.
>> Speaker 2: Can we use merge map, is it,
or is there a KinCat map and a merge map?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, and
just cuz you're using that term,
that's just a shorthand for map merge all.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: So,
merge map,
>> Jafar Husain: You do that, and
then you can get rid of this.
So everybody see that?
It's just a short hand for
map and merge all.
And concat a map and concat all has
a concat map which is a short for map and
concat all and not surprisingly switch map
is just short for map switch latest, okay.
So what do we think guys?
So now we have a one dimensional
observable of a raise of images.
Cool.
We can subscribe to this.
Heck, let's actually try it,
what the hell.
>> Jafar Husain: See what happens.
>> Jafar Husain: Uh-oh.
>> Speaker 2: You misspelled
the concat up above.
>> Speaker 2: There it is.
>> Jafar Husain: Wow, so
instantly, we get all of these.
What happened there?
The first sub just came leaping
right out of that observable, right?
Because we concatenated it to the front.
And so we immediately turned around and
got all of the images for that.
By the way, the reason it happened so
quickly is I'm caching in local
storage the result of these calls just so
we don't hit
the Reddit API too often as you guys were
all experimenting with this on your own.
So that's why the second
request happened so quickly.
But in point of fact, in reality, it would
probably take a few hundred milliseconds.
Does that make sense?
Two-tenths of milliseconds.
So all right, we've got and
now presumably if I change
the sub this will be interesting.
If I change the sub what happens?
>> Jafar Husain: I would expect
this to also get yet another array.
I don't know.
I can't tell if we did, but we should.
Yeah, we did.
So here's the second array beginning here.
I think.
Hard to tell, but does that make sense?
Just so
we're 100% clear that that's working.
I will log the lengths and
then we should see that we get it twice.
>> Jafar Husain: So once I change the sub,
right, does that make sense?
And if I switch it back,
you get the picture.
Okay, so we're getting close here,
all right